Adaptability: Powers up moves of the same type.
Aerilate: Turns Normal-type moves into Flying-type moves.
Aftermath: Damages the attacker landing the finishing hit.
Air Lock: Eliminates the effects of weather.
Analytic: Boosts move power when the Pokemon moves last.
Anger Point: Maxes Attack after taking a critical hit.
Anger Shell: Lowers Defense/Sp. Def and raises Attack/Sp. Atk/Speed when HP drops below half.
Anticipation: Senses a foe's dangerous moves.
Arena Trap: Prevents the foe from fleeing.
Armor Tail: Prevents opponent using priority moves.
Aroma Veil: Protects allies from attacks that limit their move choices.
As One: Combines Unnerve and Chilling Neigh/Grim Neigh
Aura Break: Reduces power of Dark- and Fairy-type moves.
Bad Dreams: Reduces a sleeping foe's HP.
Ball Fetch: Retrieves a Poke Ball from a failed throw.
Battery: Raises power of teammates' Special moves.
Battle Armor: The Pokemon is protected against critical hits.
Battle Bond: Transform into Ash-Greninja after causing opponent to faint.
Beads of Ruin: Lowers Special Defense of all Pokemon except itself.
Beast Boost: The Pokemon boosts its most proficient stat each time it knocks out a Pokemon.
Berserk: Raises Special Attack when HP drops below half.
Big Pecks: Protects the Pokemon from Defense-lowering attacks.
Blaze: Powers up Fire-type moves in a pinch.
Bulletproof: Protects the Pokemon from ball and bomb moves.
Cheek Pouch: Restores additional HP when a Berry is consumed.
Chilling Neigh: Boosts Attack after knocking out a Pokemon.
Chlorophyll: Boosts the Pokemon's Speed in sunshine.
Clear Body: Prevents other Pokemon from lowering its stats.
Cloud Nine: Eliminates the effects of weather.
Color Change: Changes the Pokemon's type to the foe's move.
Comatose: The Pokemon is always asleep but can still attack.
Commander: Goes inside the mouth of an ally Dondozo if one is on the field.
Competitive: Sharply raises Special Attack when the Pokemon's stats are lowered.
Compound Eyes: The Pokemon's accuracy is boosted.
Contrary: Makes stat changes have an opposite effect.
Corrosion: The Pokemon can poison Steel and Poison types.
Costar: Copies ally's stat changes on entering battle.
Cotton Down: Lowers foe's Speed when hit.
Cud Chew: Can eat the same Berry twice.
Curious Medicine: Resets all stat changes upon entering battlefield.
Cursed Body: May disable a move used on the Pokemon.
Cute Charm: Contact with the Pokemon may cause infatuation.
Damp: Prevents the use of self-destructing moves.
Dancer: Copies the foe's Dance moves.
Dark Aura: Raises power of Dark type moves for all Pokemon in battle.
Dauntless Shield: Boosts Defense in battle.
Dazzling: Protects the Pokemon from high-priority moves.
Defeatist: Lowers stats when HP drops below half.
Defiant: Sharply raises Attack when the Pokemon's stats are lowered.
Delta Stream: Creates strong winds when the ability activates.
Desolate Land: Turns the sunlight extremely harsh when the ability activates.
Disguise: Avoids damage for one turn.
Download: Adjusts power according to a foe's defenses.
Dragon's Maw: Powers up Dragon-type moves.
Drizzle: The Pokemon makes it rain when it enters a battle.
Drought: Turns the sunlight harsh when the Pokemon enters a battle.
Dry Skin: Reduces HP if it is hot. Water restores HP.
Early Bird: The Pokemon awakens quickly from sleep.
Earth Eater: Restores HP when hit by a Ground-type move.
Effect Spore: Contact may poison or cause paralysis or sleep.
Electric Surge: The Pokemon creates an Electric Terrain when it enters a battle.
Electromorphosis: Doubles power of the next Electric-type move when hit by an attack.
Embody Aspect: Boosts Attack/Defense/Sp. Def/Speed depending on the form.
Emergency Exit: Switches out when HP falls below 50%.
Fairy Aura: Raises power of Fairy type moves for all Pokemon in battle.
Filter: Reduces damage from super-effective attacks.
Flame Body: Contact with the Pokemon may burn the attacker.
Flare Boost: Powers up special attacks when burned.
Flash Fire: It powers up Fire-type moves if it's hit by one.
Flower Gift: Powers up party Pokemon when it is sunny.
Flower Veil: Prevents lowering of ally Grass-type Pokemon's stats.
Fluffy: Halves damage from contact moves, but doubles damage from Fire-type moves.
Forecast: Castform transforms with the weather.
Forewarn: Determines what moves a foe has.
Friend Guard: Reduces damage done to allies.
Frisk: The Pokemon can check a foe's held item.
Full Metal Body: Prevents other Pokemon from lowering its stats.
Fur Coat: Reduces damage from physical moves.
Gale Wings: Gives priority to Flying-type moves.
Galvanize: Normal-type moves become Electric-type moves and their power boosted.
Gluttony: Encourages the early use of a held Berry.
Good as Gold: Gives immunity to status moves.
Gooey: Contact with the Pokemon lowers the attacker's Speed stat.
Gorilla Tactics: Boosts the Pokemon's Attack stat but only allows the use of the first selected move.
Grass Pelt: Boosts the Defense stat in Grassy Terrain.
Grassy Surge: The Pokemon creates a Grassy Terrain when it enters a battle.
Grim Neigh: Boosts Special Attack after knocking out a Pokemon.
Guard Dog: Boosts Attack if intimidated, and prevents being forced to switch out.
Gulp Missile: Returns with a catch in its mouth after using Surf or Dive.
Guts: Boosts Attack if there is a status problem.
Hadron Engine: Creates an Electric Terrain when entering battle, and boosts Special Attack while active.
Harvest: May create another Berry after one is used.
Healer: May heal an ally's status conditions.
Heatproof: Weakens the power of Fire-type moves.
Heavy Metal: Doubles the Pokemon's weight.
Honey Gather: The Pokemon may gather Honey from somewhere.
Hospitality: Partially restores an ally's HP when it enters a battle.
Huge Power: Raises the Pokemon's Attack stat.
Hunger Switch: Changes forms each turn.
Hustle: Boosts the Attack stat, but lowers accuracy.
Hydration: Heals status problems if it is raining.
Hyper Cutter: Prevents other Pokemon from lowering Attack stat.
Ice Body: The Pokemon gradually regains HP in a hailstorm.
Ice Face: Avoids damage from Physical moves for one turn.
Ice Scales: Halves damage from Special moves.
Illuminate: Raises the likelihood of meeting wild Pokemon.
Illusion: Enters battle disguised as the last Pokemon in the party.
Immunity: Prevents the Pokemon from getting poisoned.
Imposter: It transforms itself into the Pokemon it is facing.
Infiltrator: Passes through the foe's barrier and strikes.
Innards Out: Deals damage upon fainting.
Inner Focus: The Pokemon is protected from flinching.
Insomnia: Prevents the Pokemon from falling asleep.
Intimidate: Lowers the foe's Attack stat.
Intrepid Sword: Boosts Attack in battle.
Iron Barbs: Inflicts damage to the Pokemon on contact.
Iron Fist: Boosts the power of punching moves.
Justified: Raises Attack when hit by a Dark-type move.
Keen Eye: Prevents other Pokemon from lowering accuracy.
Klutz: The Pokemon can't use any held items.
Leaf Guard: Prevents problems with status in sunny weather.
Levitate: Gives immunity to Ground type moves.
Libero: Changes the Pokemon's type to its last used move.
Light Metal: Halves the Pokemon's weight.
Lightning Rod: Draws in all Electric-type moves to up Sp. Attack.
Limber: The Pokemon is protected from paralysis.
Lingering Aroma: Contact changes the attacker's Ability to Lingering Aroma.
Liquid Ooze: Damages attackers using any draining move.
Liquid Voice: All sound-based moves become Water-type moves.
Long Reach: The Pokemon uses its moves without making contact with the target.
Magic Bounce: Reflects status- changing moves.
Magic Guard: Protects the Pokemon from indirect damage.
Magician: The Pokemon steals the held item of a Pokemon it hits with a move.
Magma Armor: Prevents the Pokemon from becoming frozen.
Magnet Pull: Prevents Steel-type Pokemon from escaping.
Marvel Scale: Ups Defense if there is a status problem.
Mega Launcher: Boosts the power of aura and pulse moves.
Merciless: The Pokemon's attacks become critical hits if the target is poisoned.
Mimicry: Changes type depending on the terrain.
Mind's Eye: Ignores opponent's Evasiveness, and allows Normal- and Fighting-type attacks to hit Ghosts.
Minus: Ups Sp. Atk if another Pokemon has Plus or Minus.
Mirror Armor: Reflects any stat-lowering effects.
Misty Surge: The Pokemon creates a Misty Terrain when it enters a battle.
Mold Breaker: Moves can be used regardless of Abilities.
Moody: Raises one stat and lowers another.
Motor Drive: Raises Speed if hit by an Electric-type move.
Moxie: Boosts Attack after knocking out any Pokemon.
Multiscale: Reduces damage when HP is full.
Multitype: Changes type to match the held Plate.
Mummy: Contact with this Pokemon spreads this Ability.
Mycelium Might: Status moves go last, but are not affected by the opponent's ability.
Natural Cure: All status problems heal when it switches out.
Neuroforce: Powers up moves that are super effective.
Neutralizing Gas: Neutralizes abilities of all Pokemon in battle.
No Guard: Ensures attacks by or against the Pokemon land.
Normalize: All the Pokemon's moves become the Normal type.
Oblivious: Prevents it from becoming infatuated.
Opportunist: Copies stat boosts by the opponent.
Orichalcum Pulse: Turns the sunlight harsh when entering battle, and boosts Attack while active.
Overcoat: Protects the Pokemon from weather damage.
Overgrow: Powers up Grass-type moves in a pinch.
Own Tempo: Prevents the Pokemon from becoming confused.
Parental Bond: Allows the Pokemon to attack twice.
Pastel Veil: Prevents the Pokemon and its allies from being poisoned.
Perish Body: When hit by a move that makes direct contact, the Pokemon and the attacker will faint after three turns unless they switch out of battle.
Pickpocket: Steals an item when hit by another Pokemon.
Pickup: The Pokemon may pick up items.
Pixilate: Turns Normal-type moves into Fairy-type moves.
Plus: Ups Sp. Atk if another Pokemon has Plus or Minus.
Poison Heal: Restores HP if the Pokemon is poisoned.
Poison Point: Contact with the Pokemon may poison the attacker.
Poison Puppeteer: Poisoned Pokemon also become confused.
Poison Touch: May poison targets when a Pokemon makes contact.
Power Construct: Changes form when HP drops below half.
Power of Alchemy: The Pokemon copies the Ability of a defeated ally.
Power Spot: Just being next to the Pokemon powers up moves.
Prankster: Gives priority to a status move.
Pressure: The Pokemon raises the foe's PP usage.
Primordial Sea: Makes it rain heavily when the ability activates.
Prism Armor: Reduces damage from super-effective attacks.
Propeller Tail: Ignores moves and abilities that draw in moves.
Protean: Changes the Pokemon's type to its last used move.
Protosynthesis: Raises highest stat in harsh sunlight, or if holding Booster Energy.
Psychic Surge: The Pokemon creates a Psychic Terrain when it enters a battle.
Punk Rock: Boosts sound-based moves and halves damage from the same moves.
Pure Power: Raises the Pokemon's Attack stat.
Purifying Salt: Protects from status conditions and halves damage from Ghost-type moves.
Quark Drive: Raises highest stat on Electric Terrain, or if holding Booster Energy.
Queenly Majesty: Prevents use of priority moves.
Quick Draw: 
Quick Feet: Boosts Speed if there is a status problem.
Rain Dish: The Pokemon gradually regains HP in rain.
Rattled: Bug, Ghost or Dark type moves scare it and boost its Speed.
Receiver: Inherits an ally's ability when it faints.
Reckless: Powers up moves that have recoil damage.
Refrigerate: Turns Normal-type moves into Ice-type moves.
Regenerator: Restores a little HP when withdrawn from battle.
Ripen: Doubles the effect of berries.
Rivalry: Deals more damage to a Pokemon of same gender.
RKS System: Changes type depending on held item.
Rock Head: Protects the Pokemon from recoil damage.
Rocky Payload: Powers up Rock-type moves.
Rough Skin: Inflicts damage to the attacker on contact.
Run Away: Enables a sure getaway from wild Pokemon.
Sand Force: Boosts certain moves' power in a sandstorm.
Sand Rush: Boosts the Pokemon's Speed in a sandstorm.
Sand Spit: Creates a sandstorm when hit by an attack.
Sand Stream: The Pokemon summons a sandstorm in battle.
Sand Veil: Boosts the Pokemon's evasion in a sandstorm.
Sap Sipper: Boosts Attack when hit by a Grass-type move.
Schooling: Changes Wishiwashi to School Form.
Scrappy: Enables moves to hit Ghost-type Pokemon.
Screen Cleaner: Nullifies effects of Light Screen, Reflect, and Aurora Veil.
Seed Sower: Turns the ground into Grassy Terrain when the Pokemon is hit by an attack.
Serene Grace: Boosts the likelihood of added effects appearing.
Shadow Shield: Reduces damage when HP is full.
Shadow Tag: Prevents the foe from escaping.
Sharpness: Boosts the power of slicing moves.
Shed Skin: The Pokemon may heal its own status problems.
Sheer Force: Removes added effects to increase move damage.
Shell Armor: The Pokemon is protected against critical hits.
Shield Dust: Blocks the added effects of attacks taken.
Shields Down: Changes stats when HP drops below half.
Simple: Doubles all stat changes.
Skill Link: Increases the frequency of multi-strike moves.
Slow Start: Temporarily halves Attack and Speed.
Slush Rush: Boosts the Pokemon's Speed stat in a hailstorm.
Sniper: Powers up moves if they become critical hits.
Snow Cloak: Raises evasion in a hailstorm.
Snow Warning: The Pokemon summons a hailstorm in battle.
Solar Power: In sunshine, Sp. Atk is boosted but HP decreases.
Solid Rock: Reduces damage from super-effective attacks.
Soul-Heart: Raises Special Attack when another Pokemon faints.
Soundproof: Gives immunity to sound-based moves.
Speed Boost: Its Speed stat is gradually boosted.
Stakeout: Deals double damage to Pokemon switching in.
Stall: The Pokemon moves after all other Pokemon do.
Stalwart: Ignores moves and abilities that draw in moves.
Stamina: Raises Defense when attacked.
Stance Change: Changes form depending on moves used.
Static: Contact with the Pokemon may cause paralysis.
Steadfast: Raises Speed each time the Pokemon flinches.
Steam Engine: Drastically raises Speed when hit by a Fire- or Water-type move.
Steelworker: Powers up Steel-type moves.
Steely Spirit: Powers up ally Pokemon's Steel-type moves.
Stench: The stench may cause the target to flinch.
Sticky Hold: Protects the Pokemon from item theft.
Storm Drain: Draws in all Water-type moves to up Sp. Attack.
Strong Jaw: Boosts the power of biting moves.
Sturdy: It cannot be knocked out with one hit.
Suction Cups: Negates all moves that force switching out.
Super Luck: Heightens the critical-hit ratios of moves.
Supersweet Syrup: Lowers opponent's Evasiveness when entering battle.
Supreme Overlord: Attack and Special Attack are boosted for each party Pokemon that has been defeated.
Surge Surfer: Doubles Speed during Electric Terrain. 
Swarm: Powers up Bug-type moves in a pinch.
Sweet Veil: Prevents the Pokemon and allies from falling asleep.
Swift Swim: Boosts the Pokemon's Speed in rain.
Sword of Ruin: Lowers Defense of all Pokemon except itself.
Symbiosis: The Pokemon can pass an item to an ally.
Synchronize: Passes a burn, poison, or paralysis to the foe.
Tablets of Ruin: Lowers Attack of all Pokemon except itself.
Tangled Feet: Raises evasion if the Pokemon is confused.
Tangling Hair: Contact with the Pokemon lowers the attacker's Speed stat.
Technician: Powers up the Pokemon's weaker moves.
Telepathy: Anticipates an ally's attack and dodges it.
Tera Shell: Moves are not very effective when HP is full.
Tera Shift: Transforms into Terastal Form in battle.
Teraform Zero: Eliminates all effects of weather and terrain.
Teravolt: Moves can be used regardless of Abilities.
Thermal Exchange: Raises Attack when hit by a Fire-type move. Cannot be burned.
Thick Fat: Ups resistance to Fire- and Ice-type moves.
Tinted Lens: Powers up “not very effective” moves.
Torrent: Powers up Water-type moves in a pinch.
Tough Claws: Boosts the power of contact moves.
Toxic Boost: Powers up physical attacks when poisoned.
Toxic Chain: May cause bad poisoning.
Toxic Debris: Scatters poison spikes at the feet of the opposing team when the Pokemon takes damage from physical moves.
Trace: The Pokemon copies a foe's Ability.
Transistor: Powers up Electric-type moves.
Triage: Gives priority to restorative moves.
Truant: Pokemon can't attack on consecutive turns.
Turboblaze: Moves can be used regardless of Abilities.
Unaware: Ignores any stat changes in the Pokemon.
Unburden: Raises Speed if a held item is used.
Unnerve: Makes the foe nervous and unable to eat Berries.
Unseen Fist: Contact moves can strike through Protect/Detect.
Vessel of Ruin: Lowers Special Attack of all Pokemon except itself.
Victory Star: Boosts the accuracy of its allies and itself.
Vital Spirit: Prevents the Pokemon from falling asleep.
Volt Absorb: Restores HP if hit by an Electric-type move.
Wandering Spirit: Swaps abilities with opponents on contact.
Water Absorb: Restores HP if hit by a Water-type move.
Water Bubble: Halves damage from Fire-type moves, doubles power of Water-type moves used, and prevents burns.
Water Compaction: Sharply raises Defense when hit by a Water-type move.
Water Veil: Prevents the Pokemon from getting a burn.
Weak Armor: Physical attacks lower Defense and raise Speed.
Well-Baked Body: Immune to Fire-type moves, and Defense is sharply boosted.
White Smoke: Prevents other Pokemon from lowering its stats.
Wimp Out: Switches out when HP drops below half.
Wind Power: Doubles power of the next Electric-type move used, when hit by a wind move.
Wind Rider: Takes no damage from wind moves, and boosts Attack if hit by one.
Wonder Guard: Only supereffective moves will hit.
Wonder Skin: Makes status-changing moves more likely to miss.
Zen Mode: Changes form when HP drops below half.
Zero to Hero: Transforms into its Hero Form when switching out.
